Well, yeah, there's no real difficulty.
It's just copying some stuff, right?
Among those five pabytes of data is
spread across hundreds of buckets and uh
on the order of about 5 billion objects.
The concept is straightforward, but you
got to be careful and do it right. And
there are easy ways to do it right, but
there are a lot of easy ways to go
wrong, too.
>> This is for portables, a place where the
team at 37 Signals shares their
behindthescenes work building base camp.
pay and opensource projects. We're
diving deep into what we've done and how
we've done it so you can learn a thing
or two and learn from some of our
mistakes. I'm your host Kimberly. I'm
joined to help with the technical side
of discussion by Fernando from our
engineering team. Hello Fernando.
>> Hello. Hello.
>> Well, we are talking this week a little
bit more about our move out of the
cloud. If you've been following 37
signals at all, you know that we started
a move out of the cloud back in 2022. We
have wrapped up the big portion of
moving data out of S3. To join us, we
have Jeremy Dar, principal programmer
here at 37 Signals who did much of that
final work. To talk about it, Jeremy,
thanks for being here. Before we dive
into our topic today, tell us a little
bit about you and how long you've been
at 37 Signals.
>> Um, yeah, I'm programmer here. I've been
around for some ages. And uh this uh
storage migration is the the most recent
of probably half a dozen over
15 20 years. Um so coming to it feeling
like it's uh it's time we need to move
every all the bits across the continent
again.
>> Okay. Well, I'm sure there's a lot to
dive into. Fernando, you're going to
help me with all the technical aspects
of it, but let's just start kind of
where we ended, if you will. We know
we've started this move back in 2022. Um
S3 moving that piece of data was like
the last part of the project as I
understand it. Kind of tell me why that
was the last piece and then we'll we'll
dive into the technical side.
>> Yeah, there are two things. It's
expensive um and it's scary.
We've got a lot of things to move and uh
we had built a lot of trust in S3. It's
super durable. It's super reliable. Um,
you can't go wrong with S3. It's like
the old school IBM thing of like
nobody's gonna get fired for using IBM.
Whereas storing your own stuff, um, it's
all on you. And so if you haven't been
shouldering that risk for a long time,
kind of forget what it feels like. And,
uh, so a bunch of planning, a bunch of
mitigation work, risk assessment can
help prepare for that. Um, but kind of
getting over that hump and just uh
choosing to do it, we're going to do it
uh solves that problem. The other is
cost. What are we what are we doing
here? Um, it's easy to open up our
wallet and pay a AWS and it causes us to
cry a little bit or a lot bit. Um, but
when we want to replace it, uh, we're
looking at spending hundreds of
thousands, millions of dollars on
something and we've got to be pretty
sure it's going to work or we've got to
be certain it's going to work. Uh, but
also not spin our wheels for weeks,
months trying to figure out and prove it
for sure. So, we need to come up with
some kind of framework for understanding
what we need um, and being able to prove
it before spending a bunch of money.
Third thing really S3 also has this
tricky bit which motivated some of the
cloud exit of uh you got to pay you got
to pay for everything and one of the
things you got to pay for is a bandwidth
coming out of S3. So if you want to move
your data you've got a little bit of a
well again a lot bit of a handcuff
situation. You got to pay to get your
data out.
So, uh, the EU came up with some kind of
regulations around this and all the
major cloud providers got out ahead of
the regulations saying that you've got
to be able to you got to be able to exit
um, and you can't kind of keep people's
data for ransom.
And it was like this before like we
didn't necessar people didn't
necessarily want to leave S3 because the
alternatives uh were not great and
you're on the upswing of cloud adoption
of look at all the things we're not
doing. You just get to send it out to
this abstracted thing and pay some
monthly fee rather than doing it all
yourself and paying you know hundreds of
thousands upfront for storage hardware
that you've got to run yourself and
maintain yourself. Um so anyway uh AWS
came up with um this waiver program
wherein you could get your data out of
S3 uh under certain conditions and the
conditions run like this. You've got 60
days, 90 days, whatever. You've got a
ticking clock and you got to get all
your data out. You can't halfass it. You
got to get it all out. And if by the end
of that time you can prove that it's all
out, then you'll get uh AWS credits for
the bandwidth cost. So you got to
estimate how much stuff you're storing
and then how much bandwidth it should
take to get out. If you do it all
perfectly, which of course everybody
would do, then that would be your
credit. So the public messaging is like
we're chill with this. We'll let you get
all your data out. The reality is uh
you've got this kind of tight binding
contract and you got to do it perfectly
and then we'll give you a refund. So
yeah.
>> Oh wow. Do we pick the time frame?
>> We do not pick the time frame.
>> Do we pick the 30, 60 or 90 days?
>> It's negotiable. So depending on u uh
well the the internal messaging toward
customers is u is a limited time frame
like 60 days or something. Um the
external messaging is well we'll work
with you. We'll be we'll be reasonable.
So the reality is kind of in between. We
we do have great account reps. Um so I
can't fault that uh that end of things.
It's been wonderful interacting with
AWS. But you see both sides of things of
uh we're going to look to the world like
we're ready for you to leave, but in
fact we're going to make you jump
through a bunch of uh very tight hoops.
Well, I I was going to joke like, "Oh,
it doesn't sound that difficult. You
just I don't know, copy a bunch of files
over to your hard disk drive somewhere."
Like, what is the real
difficulty there?
>> Well, yeah, there's no real difficulty.
It's just copying some stuff, right?
It's just that if you want to copy
things, well, there's a lot of things
you got to do, especially if you've got
a lot of files stored. For most people,
this copy is is not technically hard. Uh
the basic process would be um clone your
S3 bucket. A bucket of objects is like a
folder full of files. Um you list the
bucket to see what's in there. You copy
it over to your new place. Um and
typically be doing this with a live
system. So you need to have some kind of
awareness of your system would need to
know that you're moving to a new system
and there's a live old system. So if you
want to do it without downtime, you need
to be able to store files to both
places. You need to mirror your files to
both storage systems. And then you need
to do a copy and uh and after that first
copy, maybe you've got some stuff that's
in one storage system but not the other
and vice versa. So you need to bring
them into sync. You need to reconcile
them.
>> And none of this is offered by AWS. It's
all in your
>> AWS does offer something that does
something like this, but you got to pay.
[laughter]
>> Feel like that's a theme.
>> Yeah. So, if there's there's a data
transfer service uh that can do
something like this, and in fact, it can
do a lot more. It can do like
incremental syncing between disperate
systems. Um, but it is very expensive.
You're looking at tens of thousands of
dollars to uh to move large scale
buckets of stuff. Was was it ever an
option for us?
>> We did evaluate it. It would be very
nice uh not to have to do this job
ourselves um and to have somebody else
do it. And there are vendors that do
stuff like this. But again, you're
looking in on the order of like tens to
hundreds of thousands of dollars.
>> Wow.
>> Depending on the size of your buckets,
and most of them will scale with your
storage. So they're they're looking to
take a percentage cut because the more
you've got, the more you can pay
probably. Jeremy, when you're saying the
size of our buckets, like how much data
are we talking about that was being
moved?
>> So, in aggregate, we had uh we had about
10 pabytes of data across a bunch of
buckets. Um some of our applications
were responsible for um a lot more than
others. Um our average object size was
about 1.1 megabytes. Um of all that
data, we're also geographically
distributed. So dduplicated we had
probably about five pabytes of like
unique objects
and among those five pabytes of data
spread across hundreds of buckets and uh
on the order of about five billion
objects.
It's a lot of stuff. It's you get into
the realm where you you can't like if
this is a folder on your computer and
you tried to open the folder your
computer would crash and you can't you
can't list a bucket of that size without
uh taking literally days. So there there
are a bunch of interesting constraints
that come into play when you try to do
this conceptual process of you copy then
you stop your application or whatever
storing things for a little while. Then
you do a catch-up copy to reconcile to
make sure your destination has all the
stuff that was in the source and then
you cut over. you have you start using
the new system and you got to be sure
that you actually got everything that
everything was copied correctly um and
there were no mistakes and you didn't
miss anything and nothing showed up
while you were copying etc etc. So even
at the small scale you kind of the
concept is straightforward but you got
to be careful and do it right and there
are easy ways to do it right but there
are a lot of easy ways to go wrong too
and once you get to a larger scale um
there are a lot of easy ways to go wrong
and a lot more easy ways to go wrong and
a lot of ways to go slow.
>> Well I feel like we should talk about
all of those things. not only like the
things that are easy to do well, but
what are all the things people should
avoid if they're trying to do this?
[laughter]
>> Well, what would be wonderful is if uh
if egress were free and we weren't stuck
in the situation of needing to move
quickly. Um because when we look at the
the kind of bigger picture of what the
job to be done is, we got to move five
pabytes of stuff um within we negotiated
90 days. Um, and that was based on kind
of our back of the napkin math of what
kind of what size of network connection
we have available and uh and how quickly
we can move stuff.
>> Is there a is there a limit on the AWS
side on the connection?
>> There are plenty of limits. Yes. And
there are some hidden limits and some
stated limits. So that that comes into
play when we try to figure out what our
uh limiting factors are. Sorry. So if we
do a bounds analysis of
>> let me backtrack just just a little bit.
You said like, okay, we negotiated 90
days. What what what was that like? Like
like, oh, we have 5 pabytes if we have
access to, I don't know, 10 gigabytes
per second and we do this twice.
>> I was chatting with a rep saying,
"Here's how fast we can possibly do it."
>> So, uh, that's what we need. And they
said, "Okay,
>> okay."
Um, we built in plenty of buffer because
there's a part of this process is not
just the copy. And something that uh
that anybody doing a process like this
will quickly discover is that copying is
>> uh it seems like uh the central point
and the purpose of the job, but it's
really reconciliation and verification.
Making sure that you did what you
thought you did. And the doing what you
thought you did um is as costly as the
copying. And it has different kinds of
uh limitations because you need to go
look and see what you've got. And that
means listing all your files, listing
all the objects in a bucket. And when
this process can take days to perform,
you need faster ways to do it. And you
need cheap ways to do it because again,
you got to pay. If you want to list a
bucket, you got to pay for API requests.
Um, and so you got to be careful that
you don't get in a situation where
you're u uh
repeating work or doing unexpectedly
expensive work. Um, and in many cases
these like API requests are cheap. So,
it turns out we're totally fine, but you
got to do the due diligence first, not
so you don't end up discovering that in
order to save whatever tens of thousands
of dollars on a on a paid service, we
don't end up spending tens of thousands
of dollars on errant API requests
ourselves.
>> Yeah, that makes sense. How do you even
um I'm trying to wrap my mind around
this. Where this process must be
automated somehow, right? Is it in the
app? Where where does this
reconciliation process happen?
So that that gets in a little bit deeper
um into the approach that we arrived at.
Um
so there are there's more than one way
to do reconciliation and something I'd
recommend to uh people who are moving
just a single application which ideally
it's a situation you'd be in. Um so a
little digression. Um looking back uh
the ideal way to set up AWS accounts in
the first place is around these kind of
scopes of uh kind of responsibility
radius blast radius of if you ever
wanted to leave you got to take your
whole account out. So don't go putting a
bunch of buckets from different places.
Don't share an account like make
accounts early and often so that uh so
that accounts are uh aligned with your
application and so that gives you the
flexibility to move one application at a
time. Uh we were in that situation to
some extent with some of our newer
stuff, but our older applications, we
had a shared account, so we needed to do
everything all at once. And when you
have multiple storage systems in a
single account and you need to move them
all, you can't tailor the solution for
the system that's being moved. Instead,
you need something that's going to work
for all of them. So that led us to uh
it's got to be something that's at a
lower level um and is mostly transparent
to the applications we are running. So
if I were doing this with a modern Rails
app, this is something I'd build into
active storage at the application level.
I'd build in uh some kind of modeling
for where things are stored. So you get
metadata uh within the application
itself uh knowing that I've got this
object stored in AWS and I've also have
it stored in my whatever my new
destination storage is. And so the
process would be that I've got some rule
that says uh I need two copy storage and
they need to be in each of these
locations.
And so the application could do that
with just a bunch of active jobs uh
copying things on its own. You could do
it lazily in the background and just let
it trickle through if you didn't have
these other constraints of you got to
get it all done. You got to blast it at
maximum speed. Um, and you've got to
make it work with and you got to make it
work with older apps. So, not all of our
stuff is on uh latest Rails and we de we
extracted active storage from our own
apps and so most of our older apps are
using older abstractions that were kind
of the source of the source of the
extraction. So, we needed to be
compatible with all these possible
systems. So, we needed something lower
level. So we built
>> so we built something uh we didn't want
to build something um
>> but we also didn't want to pay a lot of
money. So kind of rock and hard place
thing um and we are in the position of
having the expertise like we are a
technical organization. We have
programming and operations teams. We do
all this stuff. So it's
>> natural for us to do our jobs.
[laughter]
Maybe this isn't the thing that we'd
outsource. If there was a natural fit,
we would. And in fact, we did uh to the
greatest extent we could by picking
uh purpose-built tools to do each of the
jobs. Um and in fact, we went through
multiple iterations. As we got closer
and closer to um to the kickoff of we
want to begin the copy um we reinvented
the system that we built to do copying
several times as we discovered kind of
quicker, simpler, straighter paths um to
do that job. So we started out with a
with um something that would be dead
simple um of distributing jobs over um a
bucket itself would store objects and
each object would be a final manifest
and then that file manifest would be
available to a bunch of workers. We'd
spin up as many workers as we needed to
saturate whatever bottleneck we had. So
the bottleneck could be um our network
connection, how fast we could pull
things from S3. It could be our write
rate to our destination storage. How
quickly can we write objects? And what
kind of band are we bandwidth limited?
Is there a a metadata limit on the IO
operations per second? Um or is it going
to be uh the S3 read rate? So we can
discover all these things.
>> Read rate. Why why does it have a read
rate?
>> You're just throttling you. Uh yeah,
because S3 doesn't technically have a a
cap on read rate, but they do have a cap
on what they call bucket partition read
rate. And so a normal bucket will only
have a single partition, and that's kind
of well, the way S3 is laid out, it
looks like it's kind of hierarchical
folders, but it's not. It's actually key
names that are separated typically with
slashes. So it looks like a file path.
And the natural way to partition a
bucket would be let's take all the first
file paths up to the first slash and
we're going to uh turn that into an
internal S3 partition which is like
their own way of kind of sharding the
bucket so that they can scale out so
that if you want to do things like write
a ton of things to S3 um it can be
fanned out to multiple partitions and as
you write more it's smart about noticing
that write rates are hot on certain
partitions. and it'll split them
automatically for you all behind the
scenes. So, you can't even tell what
your partitions are um unless you give
some kind of cues or use like a
traditional
uh like slash character, which can help
S3 figure out, but also you don't need
to. It'll just do it for you, but it'll
do it based on uh your usage. So, if you
have a moderate usage app, uh the first
time you're going to have high usage is
when you try to copy things out of it.
So, you're going to hit the the rate
limits pretty quickly, especially if you
have a lot of small objects. If you've
got a lot of big objects, you're going
to be bandwidth constrained um probably
on your own band on your own network
connection. If you've got a lot of small
objects, uh you can fill that pipe with
tons of connections and uh you're going
to hit the u uh the rate limit quickly.
The rate limit is for the record uh 50
5,500
git requests per second. So that's
fetching
>> and we hit that.
>> Oh yeah. Yeah. Uh
>> oh my god.
>> Yeah. That's
>> that's insane.
>> So out of the box tools can hit that
pretty quickly if you especially if you
have small objects. Um right. We got a
little bit lucky because when we uh did
our migration into S3, we worked with S3
to um to pre-partition our buckets
knowing that we'd be writing at high
rates. So on the way in, we contact
contacted S3 ahead of time saying, "Hey,
here's about how much stuff we've got.
Here's what the key layout looks like
for the objects." Um and we generally
use random hash keys, so it's like
completely uniform. So on S3's end the
job is easy because um when you have a
uniform key distribution they can just
say let's take the whatever the first
two or three characters of the key and
you will use that as partition keys.
>> Um so our big buckets were already
partitioned. So who knows what the limit
could be because when we did load tests
we didn't hit a rate limit on those
larger buckets. On smaller ones we
quickly hit a rate limit in our load
testing. I I know this is mostly about
S3, but I'm also curious, did you really
hit like a ride limit because um David
has spoken at length about this, about
the hardware, about the amount of money
that we spent on new brand new hardware
that's like blazing fast. Even that
couldn't keep up like we just like went
full throttle.
>> We certainly hit its limits. So, uh it
became a question of where
>> where are the limits and which one is.
So we got a system with a bunch of
components and each component has a kind
of maximum has a cap and which one is
going to be the weakest link. Which
one's going to slow us down? And it
turns out that we ended up pretty
similarly bound by our network
connection. We got a 100 gigabit uh
network connection dedicated to just
this copying process that thanks to our
data center pros at Summit. Um they set
this up just for this job and we uh set
up a separate VLAN for the machines that
would be doing the work. So it was
essentially their dedicated little
network universe of you can saturate
this pipe. Turns out to not have been
completely true. We were actually
sharing it for a couple other things
which we discovered because as we tuned
our system to ek out the maximum
possible performance, we actually
overshot a little bit and started uh
interfering with other traffic. Uh but
that that we that was what we thought
would end up being our uh our
bottleneck. And uh to our wonder um it
was not our destination storage. We had
initially considered doing using minio
and uh using hard drives and our read
and write rate for normal application
usage can easily be satisfied by
spinning disc hard drives. We didn't
exactly relish uh the idea of
maintaining a bunch of spinning hard
drives uh because the failure rate can
be notoriously poor depending on which
batch you get and whether you have kind
of a hot rack in your data center. And
uh it's just we're we're not looking
forward to it. And um Aaron, our head of
ops team, had a line on a new storage
system from Pure Storage uh Flashblade,
they've got this fancy, super duper um
proprietary flashy bashy setup where
they've got um rather than using
off-the-shelf flash stuff, they mounted
their own flash on their own boards and
did something a lot cheaper, kind of
bringing the u kind of flash of two
years in the future back a couple of
years which made it kind of cost
competitive with hard drives. So that
was that was a surprise and ended up
being a huge blessing. Um not because we
need the performance for steadystate
usage but because we needed the
performance for the copy. So if we had
been on hard drives, we definitely would
have been limited by our right rate uh
into those into that storage cluster
>> by physics just how fast you can spin
those right.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And so I mean it would
depend on the number of drives and like
I mean actually we probably
>> Yeah. Thinking back I think we probably
would be able to satisfy 100 gigabit
traffic on hard drives cuz we'd have so
many of them. In any case, it was a
blessing. Not quite in disguise, but
we're all happy to uh to to take the
other path. Um I'm digressing a little
bit, but uh if you're choosing storage
systems, if you're choosing storage
systems, like it can seem like make the
choice based on what you can afford now,
but uh it's also what what you're paying
over the course of 5 years or 10 years.
And our our uh total cost of ownership
analysis was based on 5year, 7year, 10
year, what it would be like to to keep
the system around for a long time. And
and the power savings alone from flash
uh are significant. Um we it's a lot
cheaper when your power is expensive in
a costly data center um that uses up
less rack space.
>> I hadn't even thought of that.
>> Yeah. Like when you go from an actual
like I'm just picturing like a bunch of
machines in a in a place, but if you're
going to like clone five pabytes, it has
to be a lot, right? A lot of machines, a
lot of power, a lot of network, a lot of
everything.
>> Yeah. Yeah. This is I mean, it's a crazy
time in the storage world. There's a
bunch of new form factors for solidstate
drives coming out right now. So, we uh
it may give me a little bit of FOMO
because I see these things coming out
just as we purchased this giant system.
And you know, we still made the right
decision for the time, but in about a
year or two, there's going to be kind of
a new generation of solidstate drives
coming out at uh 256 terbte size per
module. So, you can fit um
shoot what was it [sighs and gasps]
40 pabytes in two units rack space.
>> Wow.
>> So, you could you could fit all of our
storage into just a tiny little bit of a
rack. And in the hard drive era, we'd be
looking at like two full racks just for
that storage. And so the shrinkage and
power savings are dramatic. And it's all
happening now. And a lot of this is
driven by AI stuff of uh people need a
ton of data stored and super high
bandwidth to it. And so new vendors are
cropping up daily trying to do this kind
of job. So they're also driving uh uh
the flash hardware side. So hopefully
this will become just kind of a
commodity storage problem and you'll be
able to go to Super Micro or Dell or
whatever and order up some servers that
are packed full of these drives and uh
you won't need a special setup. You'll
just go to Newegg and
>> and buy one.
>> Yeah.
>> The limiting factor by far is network
bandwidth. So uh in in almost any copy
that's going to be uh the the cap you're
going to hit. So having a good data
center partner is uh essential there. We
were able to get 100 gigabit connection
set up in just a span of days. Um and we
had plenty of lead time etc. But still
it's just wonderful to be able to uh to
bring in a big pipe like that. And of
all things we have AWS direct connects
already but not allowed. You cannot use
your special direct fast connection to
AWS to to uh do the data egress. You've
got to use the public internet
>> even if you pay money pay more.
>> Oh wow. Yeah. So we yeah you pay money
but to get this other bandwidth covered
you've got to use the egress cost. And I
guess maybe it's just tied up in some
kind of red tape in um uh the direct
like would they cover the cost of the
direct connect like maybe they can't
account for it. Who knows? Or
>> Jeremy I do have a question because
obviously we were moving multiple
applications or working with multiple
applications to make this move. Was
there a specific order that you were
moving them or was it just you just kind
of picked an application and did that?
Like what what was the reasoning behind
the order for the move? There were two
phases. So we we uh chose some smaller
applications with uh with less
storage um but that would be
representative of our larger of our
applications with larger storage needs
that we would migrate before the egress
window opened. So essentially wanted to
test the process. We wanted to be
prepared that when the window opened
we'd be able to blast. Didn't turn out
to be that way. We had some delays as we
optimized and restarted things and
whatever, but um it was crucial to do to
do that, identify some systems that we
could do real life copies and not just
kind of test runs. So we chose a couple
of representative systems and did those
first to prove uh kind of a a blueprint
uh for how we do it for our other
applications. And each application ended
up being not quite cookie cutter, but uh
once you've kind of improvised a recipe
a few times, you kind of know what you
need to do. So you come into it with a
plan of attack of uh you need to do dual
rights to multiple places, you need to
do a reconciliation step, you need to be
um uh have a well- definfined cut over
process. Um, and so you come up with a
checklist, validate the checklist,
uh, by doing a live migration and kind
of iterate, fine-tune, and
then you're ready to go. Then when it
when it comes to the actual copy, we go
criticality first. the things that we
want to be absolutely sure and the
business critical stuff base camp all
our primary revenue generating apps with
the big data we want to get those
started as soon as possible because
there's the most to copy um and we want
the greatest assurance that we did it
all properly so give us the most uh
headroom for uh unknown unknowns we've
got our known unknowns of things that
might crop up but we also have room for
just we don't know, who knows what would
happen. And we came up with a bunch of
those. So, we're grateful for having
uh having started them early.
But yeah, definitely definitely dive
into the trickiest biggest thing first.
That that makes sense. I'm still trying
to wrap my mind around this is like um
you go to a small app and you're like,
"Okay, you know what? We need to migrate
this." You start building the program
that you mentioned, right? the
reconciliation program. Is that program
uh a rail server on its own? Is it like
the modifications that you mentioned to
um action action storage active storage?
>> No. So, we built a new thing um that
that uh kind of scales up the basic idea
I started with of I need to list things
to know what's in the source. I need to
copy everything in that list over to the
destination. And at a small scale I can
use a single program. Uh we used one
called Arclone. You can also there's one
called Arsync and most folks technical
folks have used one of these before. Um
and you just fire it up. You give it a
source and a destination and it turns
and it does the job. Uh at most scales
that'll work fine. And in fact for AWS
um their free bandwidth egress limit is
is pretty generous. So most people would
fit within it and you could just rync
and do it do it yourself or arclone and
uh and call it done and it does all the
bookkeeping for you. Um at our scale we
needed to fan out to a bunch of workers
doing this job. So we needed to do it in
parallel. That means splitting up
batching it up and so it becomes a u of
a classic like map reduce problem.
you've got a big input you need to
spread out to a bunch of jobs um and
then they've got all their individual
outputs. In this case, it's take a big
list of files, split it up into batches,
send those to workers that are going to
do the copies. Uh have those workers
have some kind of supervision that's
tracking what they're doing, their
progress, whether there's an error, um
retries, all that kind of stuff. Um
that's where we used a Rails app for
command and control uh for wrapping up
the uh the jobs and the work. Uh we
arrived at a Rails app after trying what
what I thought would might be some kind
of simpler low-fi ways of doing things
and all of all things I kind of backed
my way into doing to using Rails because
I was missing some of the u the uh
conveniences of home. One of them was uh
uh secrets management credentials. Here
we're doing something that's copying
between a bunch of AWS accounts to a
bunch of destination buckets. You've got
a ton of sensitive credentials in one
application.
And so as I was building this kind of
scriptbased kind of simple system, it's
like I realize I'm rebuilding a
credentials manager. This is not not the
life I want to be leading right now. And
how about I do something that's already
built for me? And so going to
essentially to vanilla rails um because
of this mildly auxiliary concern. I had
a bunch of other kind of pressures
swirling in my mind that were resolved
by this. So who knows whether my
unconscious was also kind of like uh I
can kind of feel that a change is going
to need to be made and here's the thing
that just triggered it. And the trigger
then led to a bunch of nice outcomes
like being able to use active job and
solid Q and um a lot of things we're
familiar with for basically how do you
distribute this work. So in the end you
have like a single rails app that you're
constantly like during this window
you're constantly monitoring like okay
did it complete everything or are there
any retries errors and then you go and
fix them like you say right oh we hit
this limit let's try and and work around
it. So that's part of the approach based
on the initial migrations as our kind of
test runs as we discovered in the test
runs you're going to have new errors
kind of surprises crop up um and so we
uh prioritized uh failing fast and uh
and not trying to be kind of resilient
in automated way. So not building in
things like exponential backoff too
early uh because sometimes things were
not things we wanted to retry. there
were actual errors. So being able to
identify something that was truly like a
transient failure um and then automate
it late rather than early. So we treated
it kind of like an endon cord of like
here we've got a production line, we
notice something's failing, we pull it,
we stop everything, we fix it and then
we you know proceed from there. So that
drove a lot of other decisions of uh
when you break things up into chunks,
they need to be observable, they need to
be retriable, um they need to be
supervised. Um and especially for a
diagnostics and troubleshooting, you
need to be able to see what's going on.
So in in these cases, you've got a act
actor job process that is invokes
another tool and you've got hundreds of
these running and so you've got this
standard output and standard error from
a bunch of tools. You've got the uh exit
status. How do you see them? Um and so
this for me this was kind of a crucial
stumbling block of like if I can't see
exactly what's going on, I don't know
what's going on. And so I don't want to
spend a bunch of time um guessing at and
troubleshooting. I want to just look at
the output and I want to be able to
figure it out as if I were running it on
my own console. So that was a critical
step early on too of making something
that was easy to supervise and just
witness if something's failing. I could
I could try it myself. I could invoke it
myself or I could pull up uh a
transcript of what that uh what that
process had done. So this was the job of
the Rails app of uh coordinate uh
pulling an inventory or a catalog from a
source split that catalog or inventory
up into a bunch of pieces
um which was its own whole thing. Like
you've got something that's huge and you
need anyway you get into tooling in a
little bigger um and uh and then make a
bunch of jobs for all that stuff. Um and
each job well it has its responsibility
is its uh chunk of files. Um and the
output for that job is a bunch of things
like status and transcripts and whatnot
and those themselves are actually stored
in a storage bucket as well. So every
job there's a unique ID associated with
it and you can go inspect um the whole
process and in fact we did have a live
tail. So, since these things can take a
while, you can just you can visually see
what's going on. You can you could just
kind of snoop on uh on any transfer.
>> So, you were basically Neo for 90 days.
>> Uh not 90 days, thank goodness.
[laughter]
Uh we ended up getting it down uh thanks
to uh to pure storage and the the very
fat pipe of bandwidth um to uh less than
10 days of transfer.
>> Wow. um which turned out to be pretty
critical u because that gave us uh lots
of time to uh to do reconciliation
verification
um yeah we didn't know that and so we
built in a lot more buffer than we
needed but I'm sure I'm glad we had the
buffer because I was also going to I was
headed on vacation on sobatical right
after this was going to wrap up which is
not the wisest of uh uh career choices
but uh [laughter]
>> Jeremy tell us a little bit about those
10 days like is it 10 days just like
non-stop are you break kind of walk us
through
>> oh it's non-stop yes
>> okay so so the setup is I didn't want to
leak kind of trickle things into a pipe
and have to be carefully tending things
I wanted to feed a pipe and have a
backlog um and so
I can well I can go through some of the
technology stuff just briefly um if
you're copying a bucket with billions of
objects uh from S3 use S3 inventory
reports. It's something you can turn on
S3 console. It's easy to do. You got to
pay. You got to pay.
>> It's the theme. It's the theme.
>> But but it is the most efficient
effective way to get a uh a large scale
bucket listing without doing the work
yourself. It is delayed. The the most
frequent you can do it is daily. And so
they drop on a schedule. And so for this
kind of process um where you want to do
a big bulk transfer
uh daily is fine. And particularly if
the system that you're migrating is
doing dual writes you're writing to both
the uh the old source and your new
destination you know that you're already
in sync. Um so there's not going to be
missed rights. So the thing you do here
is you turn on dual writes to both
places and then you take the inventory
from the day be day before you turned on
rights. So you know all all new objects
are being written to both places. So the
old inven in inventory is sufficient for
knowing that you're going to get a bulk
copy of and it's going to bring you into
a into a chord. Everything's going to be
the same. So you start from that
snapshot of the bucket. Um, so we used S
S3 inventory reports. We didn't have
that turned on everywhere. Um, we
developed um, uh, we looked for another
tool that could do something like this.
And there are a bunch that take a
similar approach. If you try to list an
S3 bucket, it will take literally days
because you need to sequentially list
files and it lists whatever a thousand
at a time or some 10,000 at a time,
something like that. Anyway, order of
magnitude wise, it it's ages. Uh but
there are some tricky very clever ways
of doing this uh where you can do it in
parallel uh by uh estimating what the
prefixes of a bucket are and you can ask
S3 for bucket listings starting from a
certain prefix. So if you know your key
distribution then rather than doing a
single sequential listing you can
instead do thousands of parallel
listings for every prefix you've got.
So you can turn a multi-day bucket
listing into something that takes like
30 minutes. So that's I had that in my
back pocket in case uh we needed live
listings. Um if we needed if we
discovered that we were going to be in a
situation where we needed to do a
downtime or we weren't able to do dual
writes in a system. So you'd need a
downtime to be able to stop writes from
the old system but also not write to the
new system so you wouldn't get out of
sync. Um and also to uh to list the
objects in the destination buckets uh
because uh pure storage and the flashb
product does not have an equivalent to
inventory reports. So you've got to do
the listing yourself. So on that other
side you want to do you want to take the
inventory report from S3 and then you
want to develop your own report of the
destination and compare them and any
discrepancies need to be accounted for.
So you need a fast way to do that. So
there's a tool called S3 fast list uh
that's on our GitHub. We forked it from
um AWS samples um and we adapted it so
that it would support um nonS3
storage systems so that we can use it to
to list uh uh flashblade buckets. Works
great. Very clever approach. Really
pleased to find that. We didn't end up
needing it that much, but it was a
wonderful diversion and felt like have
felt like a kind of an insurance policy
of a special built tool in the u in the
toolbox. Um the next thing was how do we
split these things up? And we started
with oh gosh, how are we going to take
this? Uh the S3 inventory report comes
in either CSV format or parquet format.
Um and parquet being like flooring. it's
like kind of split up and actually I
don't know how far the metaphor goes um
but it's a very efficient format for
doing columner um u
data storage. So it's great for
analytical processing and whatnot where
you know which columns you want to work
with and you need to do some
transformations on them. And it's
particularly nice for something like
this because there's tooling that can
ingest it that can stream it from a
remote destination and um and operate on
it and then emitt it again. So took us a
while to discover this because I was
looking initially for just something
something like polars. There are
different tools that can ingest uh
parquet and uh and operate on it, split
it up, whatever like use a windowing
function to we wanted to do something
like uh uh split this not just into
number of objects but in uh total batch
size so that we would evenly distribute
batches across machines so that we
wouldn't end up with uneven bandwidth
demands. So you wouldn't have one
machine that is working on a batch of a
bunch of small objects and it can't fill
the pipe. What you want is to have an
even distribution size-wise so that
you're maxing out uh the pipe on each of
the worker machines. So to do that, you
need a windowing function that goes
through the uh the inventory report and
does a cumulative sum on the bite size
of the objects. And each time it reaches
10 gigabytes, it says up. I'm going to
uh do a split right there. And I'm going
to turn that into a chunk. Um and
this turned out to be hard. Use a lot of
memory. Um and uh kind of work. Um but
ended up maxing out the memory on the
machine I was using. And it's like,
well, okay, this is probably might be
feasible, might not be feasible. And
then I discovered duck DB. freaking
awesome. Doc DB is amazing. Um I just I
cannot sing its praises enough. Uh it's
like uh somebody discovering SQLite for
the first time. Well, Duck DB is like
SQLite on whatever next generation
steroids because it does it can even do
the stuff SQLite does. Maybe better
because I I'm just glowing with its uh
capabilities. But it can do SQL. It can
like connect to remote databases. It can
uh work with a local database in process
just like SQLite. It can work with CSV
files and parquet files on the local
file system. Uh so most kind of big data
data science stuff duct DB can do
locally on a single machine and super
efficiently. It's really smart about
spreading out IO's uh to do things as uh
smartly as possible u to try to avoid
doing things like bringing everything
into memory. So,
I'll sing his praises a little bit more.
Um, it not only can connect to
everything like a Swiss Army knife of
data analysis, it can also connect to
remote URLs and to S3. So I had this
whole system built of uh ingesting data
from S3, downloading it um and then
staging it in a u on the local file
system and then doing the splitting
myself using my own tooling and then
storing those split files uh in another
bucket as a staging area for jobs that
would then be uh dispatched to work each
of those chunks.
Turns out I could skip all of that. uh
with one duck DB invocation, I can point
it at a glob that's referencing multiple
uh S3 files. So the the inventory report
is split up into hundreds of files. It
can reference all those files,
um stream them all in, partition them
the way I like, and then write them to a
remote S3 compatible file store. All
streaming. So there's no local file
system. There's no other code I need to
write. It's just you got to configure it
properly. You got to be know what you're
doing. But when you get it working, it's
like, "Oh god, yes, this is sweet."
You're working with a remote thing,
streaming it all through, not using a
bunch of memory, and then writing it out
to uh remote storage. And then I was
able to take that uh the files that had
been written, and I kind of wrapped
active storage records around them. I
said I'm going to make um active storage
records that point to um
uh where those batch files have been
stored and then I distribute those uh
active storage records out to uh to the
jobs to work.
>> That's a benefit that you were in a
Rails app, right?
>> That is a benefit of a Rails app. Yes.
Yeah. And I had that abstraction to work
with. And thankfully active storage was
able to accommodate this where I was
kind of going behind its back because I
was using duct DB to write the files
rather than using Active Storage. And I
said, "Haha, Active Storage, I've got
these files. Can you make use of them?"
And it's like, "Yeah, of course I can do
that." So, you just feed it the key of
where it's stored and active storage
will be happy to work with it as you
bring it.
>> That is so cool.
>> So, any case,
>> duct DB amazing, [laughter]
able to able to partition the problem
and uh kind of eliminate a whole step of
what would otherwise need to be custom
code. It just goes on to show you that
like nothing is new.
Like how did the TV guys know like oh
you know what what process would be
really nice if you take this partition
it and then put it this way like that's
so so cool. I I love that.
>> Um
>> yeah the thing in common like people's
resource constraints everybody's
constrained in similar ways and they all
have different problems but they're all
stuck in similar ways and here somebody
comes along and solves it elegantly and
does it with open source.
>> Very cool. And and this process this had
to happen like once a day, right?
Because of the limitations of the uh
inventory.
>> Am I right?
>> So I I did it in a um I did end up
automating it, right? Of course. But it
it can it can happen at most once a day.
So I made a
>> a scheduled scan for new inventory
reports and I automatically process them
so they'd be ready if I did choose to
use them. And I only did this because it
turned out that uh that partitioning was
so easy and cheap. You know, I had
anticipated it being like a a pretty
slow process, and so I wouldn't want to
just be firing it off all the time. I'd
want to choose which specific inventory
report I used, and it would take hours
or who knows how long to uh do the
partitioning. Um, but now is a matter of
minutes. So, I'm like, well, I'm just
going to I'm just going to do it. Make
it easy to choose uh which which
inventory report I want to use as a sync
s as a copy source. So from uh the app
dashboard, I could have a list for every
app and every AWS account in every
bucket uh which things were transferred
using which uh source manifest. I've got
a bunch of inventory reports. For each
one, I can see that I've kicked off a
copy. I have state tracking for uh
every part of the process of
partitioning to copying to errors to
reconciliation.
>> Wow. As a non-technical person here, I
do have a question because all of this
sounds very hard and scary. I'm curious,
Jeremy, like what was the most
nerve-wracking part of this process?
>> Deletion. Yeah, the the final deletion
where you you know,
I mean, it's like anything that's uh
high stakes. Your brain's got a lot of
things going on. My brain's got a lot of
things going on. I've got feelings,
sensations. I've got some kind of
cognitive whatnot that's blinking on and
off sometimes. And some parts are
telling me like I know that things are
fine, but anxiety is telling me like,
>> "Yeah,
>> maybe you should discover why it's not."
And uh and you know, those two those
things need to work together. And I can
use my anxiety as a guide that maybe I
haven't figured everything out, but I
can then use my cognitive process of uh
here's the things I've worked out. I've
ruled all these things out and I have
some standards of proof. I can
demonstrate conclusively
um in a way that is not dependent on my
anxiety that can be externally verified
that uh that it worked and that I'm
done. Um nonetheless, deletion is still
u dicey. Uh but when you do press delete
then it's I mean oh
>> like sky take the wheel. Yeah. It's just
all happening now. Yeah. Right. There's
no going back. We're now doing
deletions. Um yeah, coming up with the
the biggest unlock feeling was um was
adding kind of a bolt and suspenders
step. You know, keeping your pants up.
You want more than one way. When you're
verifying and reconciling, you want to
be a little bit more than sure. And so
um thanks to uh Pure Flashblad's
extraordinary metadata uh read write
rates, we can do hundreds of thousands
of uh metadata operations per second um
just without breaking a sweat. It made
it easy to do um uh rather than doing
reconciliation against inventory reports
um to do reconciliation by doing a live
sync. And so with an inventory report,
you've got lag time between the listing
and kind of the live state of things. Um
whereas with a live synchronization, you
can see uh exactly how many objects were
needed to be copied um and and the size
of them. And so you could essentially do
repeat copies fairly cheaply
um until you can see that everything is
done.
And uh it really helped just
psychologically and as a matter of kind
of certifi certifiable proof that you
get the final copy that says nothing
needed to be copied, everything was up
to date. Um and that typically came
after there's another key step of when
you're doing dual rights to a
previous source and the new destination.
um you turn off dual rights and you go
to single write just to your new storage
destination and then at that point you
know only your new one is new and if you
did need to roll back you're kind like
ah if I did need to roll back now you
now you're out of sync now you need to
copy the new stuff back to the old place
so that happens after
uh you get your green everything was
cool nothing new needed to be copied
turn off the uh dual rights and uh and a
final sync can double verify nothing is
changing nothing is accidentally
writing. So I did a bunch of other you
know more than just belt and suspenders
also whatever else contraptions you can
imagine keeping your pants up. Um one of
them was just changing the um the
permissions on the S3 buckets. Some of
these we had old systems that had
multiple things writing to them and you
just you kind of know but do you really
know? And one of the ways to be sure is
to just turn off writes. So if something
was writing to it, it would error. Um,
so that's kind of the final straw of u
uh assurance like when I go to delete
this or I go to turn things off, I don't
have some straggler that's going to
surprise me and it was only writing
some hours of the day or was on a chron
job or something so I wouldn't have
caught it in the initial sync. My hands
are sweating and I had nothing to do
with this like oh my god the amount of
Okay, the million-dollar question. Was
there any downtime?
>> There was no downtime. Um everything
everything worked and it was yeah really
quite wonderful. There were some things
we broke. So I suppose
>> we don't need to talk about that. Okay.
uh [laughter]
we so the the 100 Gbit link was actually
on a shared link with uh some other
things that were using a portion of the
bandwidth. And so when we pushed over
about 80 gigabits um we started kind of
impinging on some other stuff that
needed to not be impinged on. And so we
did cause some errors elsewhere but the
copy was fine.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> Suspenders worked right. Yes. Yes.
[laughter]
>> Jeremy, question for you. Now that this
is done, like it's tied up with a bow,
looking back, are there things that
you're like, "Oh, I wish I had done this
differently."
>> Um,
>> you can say no.
>> No.
>> Okay.
>> No. Yeah, I'm pretty happy with how
things worked out. Um, I I appreciated
the incremental approach to starting
simple and focusing on the epicenter of
what I thought was the epicenter of the
problem because I didn't build too much
as I discovered that the true epicenter
was in verification, reconciliation,
inventory management. It was um it's
about how do I track what's going on?
And the copy itself was fairly simple. I
did rabbit hole a couple of times. I
built out a um kind of a live view
system that I didn't actually end up
using much, but in key times I did. So
in a kind of like hindsight bias of like
I didn't need to do all that, but I kind
of did to discover that I didn't need
it. It's a little circular, but allowed
me to diagnose and troubleshoot uh
things that were blockers that would
have been really hard to uh to work out
otherwise because it's things that turn
into like little Heisen bugs of if I run
this myself um outside of supervision,
it works. But then in my supervis
supervision framework
um something breaks and it's you know
stuff like I'm opening a pipe and I'm
feeding things to standard input and
I've got another pipe that's reading and
um like a pipe could get uh wedged
because somebody hasn't read from it
frequently enough for something like
this. Um and it can manifest as some
other kind of error. Um anyway, having
that kind of visibility uh was really
helpful, but
looking back, I could probably delete it
from the uh app we built.
>> Uh my question would be um I mean you
are an eminence within the Rubyan Rails
community. Let's assume I'm just an
average Rails developer.
Can I what what is the complexity of the
project I can take on from removing from
moving out of history to our own
hardware?
>> You could take on this whole project and
this is one of the I and the magic of
this is that uh a lot of the uh feeling
of criticality is the business
criticality. It's not technical
difficulty.
>> Um it's a modeling pro problem. Um, and
there's some tricky things with process
supervision that Ruby doesn't make super
easy, but it's not not bad. And there's
plenty of other kind of worked examples
you could start with. Um, and otherwise
the degree to which vanilla rails just
works as quite gratifying. uh in a
particular well Kamal also and in fact
leading into this as part of um
uh figuring out our upper bounds was
doing S3 load testing against our our um
flashblade. So we got this new S3
service. What can it actually do? Well,
there are load testing tools out here
that can do that. And I use Kamal to
deploy one of these tools out to a bunch
of nodes and hammer it as much as I
could. Worked great. And I used Kamal to
uh to deploy um our copying application
called Nostos. Um and worked
fantastically too. And uh I was able to
use accessories Kimal accessories to
stand up a the database that did all the
state tracking um do open telemetry
observability do logging um it was all
just single system like a single
developer pushing to some VMs somewhere.
So it's all kind of bog standard stuff
but it's being used in the employment of
a kind of critical operation but again
the criticality is all in our heads. Uh
the actual app is fairly simple.
>> Um you mentioned uh duct TV as being
like wow an incredible tool in your
arsenal.
>> I cannot sing his praises enough.
>> Are there any other tools that were like
completely necessary in this process?
Yeah, I I I sung Rails praises a little
bit. Vanilla Rails was uh turns out to
be the way to go and I don't mind
tooting that horn a little bit. This
other tool S3 Fast List um was like a
little pleasant discovery.
Diamond in the rough. Um in our clone
itself, what we did to do the heavy
lifting copies was incredible. Um it did
all the stuff we needed. Um it's open
source. It was easy to contribute to. In
fact, as part of this, we added a u a
flashblade an official flashblade
destination to our clone. So, when you
go do an an clone of your own, and it's
got this nice kind of interactive thing
where it asks about where you're going,
where you're coming from, where you're
going to, and now pure storage, flashb
blade is one of the places you're going
to. And what that is is just it's
essentially like a um uh list of
characteristics of the system so that
Arclone knows how to best do its
transfers. there are certain quirks and
oureasies with different S3 compatible
file stores and and Pure Storage has
some of them and um and uh now it's just
all set up out of the box where you
don't need to go figure out the command
line flags yourself
>> that that change was upstreamed.
>> Yes, that's that's part of that's part
of Arclone. Now
>> uh the other key thing is that uh
Arclone is
bandwidth and metadata operation
efficient. Um, and it's oriented around
resilience first. So,
>> you can operate it in a bunch of
different ways. You can kind of back off
on the kinds of checks it does, but it
does nice things like pull the check sum
from the source and check it against the
destination. And it can even do a a uh
kind of extreme check where uh normally
you would write the file to the
destination. You get a check sum back
and you compare that the check sum that
it says was written is what uh you had
and you say okay cool it looks good.
>> But you can also do it in kind of really
be careful mode which is write to the
destination get the check sum then
download it from the destination and
check the actual check sum of the bits.
[laughter]
So, it's got you covered for kind of uh
every degree of risk mitigation you want
to have at play. So, if you don't trust
your destination yet because funny
things can happen where like a bit gets
flipped on a hard drive or a gamma ray
hits something and
>> messes something up where you where it
says that you got
>> the check sum you expect but it turns
out on disk there was a modification. So
depending on the level of criticality of
your data, how many infinite nines
you're going for after that decimal
point,
>> um, Arclone's got your back.
>> I'm just going to sing his praises a
little more. Sorry.
>> Yes, go for it.
>> So So there certain things, um, you can,
uh, you can be very efficient with
Arclone where you can skip operations
that don't matter. And if I don't want
to do a bunch of metadata operations
again against S3 like checking last
modified time whatever things that are
not present in the S3 file listing or an
inventory report that would normally
need to make a head request against S3
which you got to pay if I don't want to
go do that and I don't want to
bottleneck on making those calls to S3
because again there's just adds to the
uh the uh the rate limit bucket and on
the flip side if you don't want to do
excess metadata operations on the
destination you and tune our clone to um
to your heart's content. I I was going
to ask did we at any point consider like
doing random statistical analysis with
like a full give me the bytes back check
do the check sum here
>> we did
>> okay
>> we did so we did some of the copies with
the full pull um and we didn't run into
any issues we just did kind of a
>> a grab bag sample I just manually ran
some of the batches
>> just to satisfy myself
>> yeah because I mean you could do it for
everything and be completely quote
unquote completely Sure, but it would be
insanely expensive, insanely
timeconuming, but that makes sense.
>> Yeah. And it it would suck a lot of our
our bandwidth. So all the bandwidth we
want to be using exclusively for writes,
we don't want to be eating it up on
reads, verification reads, whereas
metadata operations
>> um uh they don't use much bandwidth.
They just eat up um CPU time on the
flash blades. So we were able to
calculate all that out too of depending
on the number of kind of compute um
cores in the flashblade cluster uh how
many metadata operations you can
possibly do concurrently. So essentially
we wouldn't uh flood it. We would we
would edge it just a little bit over
what it ought to be possible what ought
to be able to do to keep it fully
utilized.
>> That makes sense. Um I want to go back
to the to the open source thing. I
really I feel it's a it's such a great
part of of this of 37 signals that we're
both contributing to open source uh in
in like the the patch that that uh that
went out. But uh I'm curious if we are
going to open source our tool like this
tool that you built. I did build it with
a mind toward open sourcing and part of
that was to uh it's almost like a kind
of a design discipline that I'm not
going to make something like too
bespoke. Um, and there were some
decision points along the way. At one
point, uh, it's easy for us to do an NFS
mount, for example, and to use an NFS
mount to share files, but it's not
terribly different to use an object
store and to use active storage. So, in
a case like that, I aired on the side of
using uh uh vanilla rails of using
object storage rather than developing a
different kind of file store file
storage back end. Now, if I was just
doing bash scripts, I would probably do
an FS mount. But as soon as I moved into
Rails, it's like, let's just do it all
the Rails way. And once you're doing
things the Rails way, it becomes almost
hard to do it in a 37 signal specific
way of the things you hardcode in, it's
easy not to. And uh things like uh where
your credentials go well goes into a
separate credentials area and things
like AWS accounts and credentials are
modeled in the database. I used u active
record encryption to store credentials
in the database. So they're not part of
the repo that's part of um kind of your
onboarding process. You start with a
blank app. You add AWS accounts. It
takes your credentials and uh and goes
and scans for all the buckets you have
and imports them into the app and it on
a regular basis and can go pull them and
then you can start copies from that
stuff. And similarly you set up
destinations and just the same way. So
you can support different kinds of
sources, different kinds of
destinations. Uh perfect setup for being
a general purpose tool. As we got closer
to uh to the end, I did start
specializing some of my design decisions
based on the phase of the copying that
we were in. So I started tuning the
dashboard to reflect what I needed to
know.
So, and that sacrificed a little bit the
things that are important earlier on.
So, as it got into like, okay, I just
need this for me. Um, I'm going to
totally revamp things right here. Um,
now the UI is um it's a little bit
narrower and purpose-built for my needs
and not everybody else could necessarily
understand it. Um, so in any case, yeah,
it's very open sourcable. Um, we'd like
to do it. I would like to do it. um the
investment in doing it is like okay you
got to like tease apart some things and
so one possibility is uh is sharing it
kind of like an artifact of here's what
what this look like frozen in time
>> at the at the end and if you wish to
take it and adapt it and turn it into
something because this is certainly not
our line of business we're not going to
make a product out of doing this
>> that's right
>> so I'm not going to spend a six week
cycle of work on polishing up something
that then we end up being open source
maintainers for it's like no I'm not
going to so I'll share it, but I'm not
going to maintain it.
>> That's awesome. And uh what what are
what what do you feel are the next steps
now that you're like that the full
transfer is done? You deleted
everything. What where do we go from
here? What what about backups? What
about
>> uh Yeah. So it's all the other stuff.
all the other this is all the
programming side of I drove the uh the
copies and the transfers from the
application and the software looking out
our awesome ops team and Nat and and uh
in particular um did all the operation
side of how do we stand up these storage
systems on the back end and uh and feed
them and keep them uh keep them well fed
and now that we've got all the bits on a
disc somewhere
uh how do we make sure we don't lose
them? It's all the standard kind of data
reliability stuff. Um and so we run
through the cases of like what can
happen, what are the things that we what
are the risks we need to mitigate and
things like data loss on a drive or um
losing a system, losing a power supply.
Each of these things has its own kind of
redundancy and that's all on the system
side. Then there are other kinds of
redundancy concerns like what happens
when a truck backs into the power
transformers at a data center and takes
the whole thing down.
Well, we're not going to lose our data.
Um but it's going to be unavailable. So
then we got the availability problem.
Well, we've got a second site which is
our backup of the first. It's kept in
sync live. Um and it it lags in a sense
that uh that we don't write to it
directly. So, we're insulated from
things like uh software bugs on our
applications. If we accidentally delete
something like, oh crap, we wrote a bug
that deleted some stuff. It's like you
need a backup. It's not sufficient just
to have just to have like high
durability. You also need to be
insulated from other kinds of mistakes.
Um and our second site is essentially
that we've got another storage system
that similar size, similar class,
similar rate and uh and we replicate
from the first to the second. So if
there is an issue availability wise or
durability wise um we've got a place to
go and we'll just flip the applications
over to use the second one. Now that's
not the whole story for backups. There's
the kind of age-old 321 rule where
you've got uh three composure data on
two different kinds of media uh and one
offsite. It's a little bit uh rusty
around the corners in the age of cloud
stuff and uh and particularly with
modern flash because the old school
thing was uh typically hard drives and
hard drive failures and um your other
media would often be tape. Um
and these days that picture looks a
little bit different. What is different
media really? Is that other kinds of
flash? Is all flash one kind of media?
um you need sufficiently different
characteristics that if something
catastrophic were to happen to one mode
of uh file storage, your other mode
would not be affected by the same risk
factor. So, we're looking at uh doing a
third site with hard drive storage or a
different kind of flash um and acting as
our insurance policy. And the other
factor that we're pulling in here is
that our two sites are using the same
vendor. So we've been very happy with uh
PUR's flashblade product and we had
similar resource constraints both in
power and cooling and rack space in both
data centers. So uh using Pure for both
made sense and we're able to smush them
together into one contract. Uh just
sensible step but that's a single vendor
and we run the same operating system. We
do stagger upgrades, but if there's a
bug in the system and we deploy it to
both systems, well, we essentially have
a single point of failure. We don't have
two systems anymore and we've got one
operating system and the same bug
affecting both. So, what we'd like is a
third system with a different vendor.
So, we'll we're looking at using Minio,
the kind of open core u storage S3
compatible storage system. They've got a
dual license where you can use minio
free or you can get a support plan with
them and it's what we had been
considering using before we discovered
pure. So uh we'll be going back a little
bit and having um not just a second
vendor but also kind of an open- source
fallback. That's our insurance policy
against things like people becoming uh
storage vendors being acquired. That is
often the final destination that's
pushed us off of other vendors in the
past of you got bought by some big
company and now what do we do?
>> Wow, that is a lot of things to
consider.
>> I I will say the the other storage
medium that was kind of a romantic
diversion for quite some time was uh was
using tape for real. Um, back in the day
I operated tape libraries and there's
there's something that's just kind of a
retro future tech satisfying about
seeing a literal robot going and
grabbing a tape from a library and
putting in a little drive and like I'm
going to copy my stuff onto there and uh
and it's super durable. You don't need
power for tapes just sitting there. Um,
and they're guarant I mean they're their
lifetime is like 30 years. Uh, and you
can go put them in whatever assault mine
somewhere and you're good. And you could
you could pack up your tapes and you
could carry them in a in luggage if you
wanted to. There's just a lot of
aesthetically pleasing characteristics
about it. So, we really tried to to make
this work because you could get a whole
multipetabyte storage system going for
like less than 100 grand. Um, which is
as far as like capital outlay that's
like fairly cheap per terabyte. Um, but
devil's in the details. So, like these
tape systems are built for older school
systems that have a that have a
directory like a file system that you
control through to see what needs to be
backed up. Object storage is a little
bit different. Uh, to figure out what
needs to be backed up. With object
storage, you need some kind of gateway
which pulls new objects uh into a
scratch space and then backs those up to
tape and keeps a catalog. and there's
just a whole finicky kind of additional
system you need. Um, and then you'd have
the troubles of like how do you actually
uh how do you restore from tape? Well,
the only case it would be in is like a
truly end of the company kind of
scenario where some kind of nuke is hit
and you want to recover things and it's
going to take weeks to recover from
tape. So, yeah, it's truly an insurance
policy at that point. like, well, it'd
be an aesthetically pleasing insurance
policy and one that's fun to consider,
but it's not actually going to work.
Dang it.
>> Jeremy, thank you for joining us. This
has been Recordables, a production of 37
Signals. To learn more from our
technical team, check out the developers
blog at dev.37s signals.com.